Israel's military has withdrawn its
troops from gaza's alifa hospital saying
its two-e raid was one of the most
successful operations in its war against
Hamas in Gaza it says it has killed
scores of Hamas Fighters as well as
Gathering weapons and intelligence in
the operation as part of its response to
the terror attack on October 7th last
year this is alifa Hospital the largest
medical facility in Gaza after a 2 we
raid by the Israeli Army it is now a
shell of its former self situated in a
devastated neighborhood strewn with
rubble destruction is far and wide in
the shifa compound as you can see and
there have been many casualties now we
will move the sick and the wounded from
alifa to the Baptist Hospital which is
the only one in the Gaza Strip still
providing services for
patients the operation described by
Israel as one of the most successful of
the nearly six month war is now over and
the troops have
withdrawn the Israel Defense Forces say
around 200 militants were killed during
the raid and that it seized over $3
million in cash vital intelligence
documents and
weapons Hamas and medical staff deny
that Palestinian Fighters have any armed
presence in
hospitals the Israeli Army though says
the raid was carried out while
preventing harm to civilians
patients and medical
staff however the World Health
organization's director General disputes
this
claim his post on X formerly Twitter
paints a dire picture he says 21
patients died during The Siege and more
than 100 were still lacking vital
Medical
Care and while the troops may now have
pulled out of alifa what they've Left
Behind is a community
[Music]
in I'd like to welcome Dr Gan Abu a
British Palestinian plastic and
reconstructive surgeon who spent more
than a month working in Gaza after
Israel's Invasion he joins us now from
London thank you so much for taking the
time today I'd like to start by asking
what you are hearing from your
colleagues at chifa hospital about the
state of the facility after Israel's
withdrawal so today we received the
harrowing news that our colleague Dr
Ahmed madma a young brilliant plastic
surgeon who had I had worked with during
this war at
shifa um his body was found executed by
the Israelis in the area around shifa
hospital he had chosen to remain in
Northern Gaza uh and continued to work
in the hospitals that stayed in Northern
Gaza um a young brilliant surgeon who
had won a fellowship from the Royal
College of Surgeons his uh life was
ended by Israeli
sniping and uh with that news came the
news of the end of shifa shifa can no
longer be repaired and that's 30% of the
Palestinian Health System you're
describing a terrible loss there I'm
wondering if you could also tell us a
little bit about exactly what kind of
functionalities remain if any at alifa
are they able to provide any kind of uh
health care at this
[Music]
time no left at shiffer and not just
that it's irreparable now it's
irreparable in terms of the ability to
fix it it has to be demolished and
rebuilt from scratch and that's the
devastating thing this is 30% of the
Palestinian uh Health System this means
that if there was a ceasefire tomorrow
we will be years away from rebuilding a
replacement for shiffa hospital and that
was the aim of this rap to ensure that
Gaza remains an uninhabitable place so
that the ethnic cleansing continues well
after the ceasefire well Israel says its
military campaign is in self-defense uh
aimed at Hamas and that it does take
measures to ensure that it minimizes
harm to civilians uh in Gaza and after
this particular raid it says it has
killed senior Hamas operatives uh and
others who' regrouped their after a
previous read They're saying
approximately 200 militants in the area
of the hospital and that they've
detained hundreds of other people I'd
like to ask based on your experience how
plausible you find their claim
here so I will I'll be sure to let Dr
Ahmed mad's young Widow and his two
little children both under the age of
five know that the Israeli Army has done
its utmost to protect civilian life but
more importantly as someone who was in
shifa from the very beginning of this
military campaign it is not just that
the Israelis are part of this genocidal
project that narrative the
militarization OFA
narrative highlights the fact that there
is a system of genocide enablers that
extends into the Western media that have
perpetuated this idea that it was
acceptable to attack shifa under all of
these pretex I need to jump in and to
provide some context here um indeed
Israel has been accused of genocide at
the international court of justice uh by
South Africa this is a case where we're
awaiting a verdict and it remains a
contested term but I'd love if you can
for you to uh paint a picture further of
of what this means uh both for the
immediate Healthcare needs in Gaza of
Palestinians there but also looking
ahead in the Years or decades to come in
terms of where people might seek medical
attention well
30% uh of the health system is now in
Ruins uh and so one of the few
functioning or partially functioning
Health Facilities that existed in
Northern Gaza to provide services for
the 600,000 Palestinians still in the
north has been wiped out and if there
were to be a ceasefire it will be years
before a hospital of this size can be
rebuilt and refurbished making Gaza
uninhabitable for the next several years
our correspondent Rebecca ritters has
more on the aftermath of Israel's two
week long raid at the alifa hospital in
Gaza the Israeli military have called
this a very successful operation they
also called it a Precision operation
though that may not be the first word
that pops to mind when you see the
pictures of the hospital now uh the
Israel saying that at least 200
terrorists as they call them were killed
during this operation that 900 people
have been um arrested and interrogated
of that 900 500 have been identified to
be partnered with Hamas or Islamic Jihad
and that the others uh they're still
trying to identify as you rightly point
out they also say they found weapons and
um Intelligence on the site uh and that
it was very successful the most
successful in the operation so far um
they say that they needed to go in
because they had evidence intelligence
that Hamas and Islamic Jihad were using
the hospital as a base that they had
regrouped there since the last raid
earlier on in the conflict that the
Israeli military conducted on the
hospital and that they were using it to
regroup and resupply uh parts of the
northern strip so yeah shears have seen
sheer Devastation this is a hospital uh
the biggest health facility in Gaza and
it's been rendered completely unusable
I'd like you to ask you to stay with us
because meanwhile in Israel prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu is under
increasing pressure we've seen tens of
thousands of people turn out for Mass
protests calling for his resignation and
also a long Brewing political fight over
conscription for Israel's Ultra Orthodox
Jewish minority coming to a head that of
course in addition to these Street
protests let's take a closer
look Fed Up and Furious Israelis taking
part in the biggest anti-government
demonstration since the October 7th
terrorist attacks demanding that
Benjamin Netanyahu quit and for an
immediate deal to get Israeli hostages
back it's all people
isra will
St Minister and move and make some of
them want
a election now Yahoo has pushed back on
the grounds of National
Security the calls for elections now
during a war right before our Victory
would paralyze Israel for at least half
a year it would paralyze the negotiation
for the release of our hostages it would
end the war before its objectives are
completed and the first one to benefit
from this would be
Hamas protests not just over the war and
hostages over the weekend military
veterans Tangled with ultra orthodox
Jewish men over their exemption from
army service netanyahu's government
faces a Monday deadline to come up with
a plan to reform conscription with
overwhelming public opinion in favor of
forcing the ultra Orthodox to
serve Netanyahu relies on Ultra Orthodox
parties to keep him in power they've
threatened to drop out of his Coalition
if young Ultra Orthodox men lose their
exemption but if it continues he will
likely lose Centrist
members
either way it spells trouble for the
coalition government the turmoil inside
his cabinet reflecting the frustration
outside where protesters say they'll
take to the streets again and again
let's get back to Rebecca in Jerusalem
Rebecca can you tell us a little bit
more about why these protesters want to
see Netanyahu step
aside well CL as you heard in that
report they are predominantly angry with
how the Prime Minister and the
government have handled the hostage
negotiation talks uh since the October 7
uh terrorist attack and and the
negotiations that have continuously
failed to bring home their loved ones
this protest movement or protest group
are many is made up of many of the the
same groups that were protesting before
the war last year we were covering them
uh a lot last year these weekly protests
against the government and they is
basically a Resurgence of the same
groups that that are now changing in
flavor or F if you will because they're
they're even more angry and more
devastated even traumatized you could
say uh about the situation with the
hostages uh many of the family members
of the remaining hostages and some of
the released hostages of joining in
these protests they'll be going for this
particular one be going for 4 days here
in Jerusalem outside the knesset um you
know they're really angry they they
blame Netanyahu for many of the things
that led up to the October 7 at and say
that he simply hasn't done enough in the
aftermath Sami sakol is a journalist in
Israel and joins us from Jerusalem
welcome Sammy why are these protesters
angry with the Prime
Minister yeah well this is anger that
has been building up now for quite a
while uh already before the 7th of
October uh there was a strong protest
movement against
Netanyahu and these people people felt
that during the time of War it is better
that they would sit at home uh rather
than H going out to the streets but as
the months are passing by and since
there is no breakthrough in the war in
Gaza it seems like it's a war with no
end the hostages have not been released
and um there is a strong demand that
Netanyahu resigns both for his uh
failure on the 7th of October both for
his failure to release the hostages and
of course because of the corruption H
cases that are against them and what has
happened most recently is that the
families of the hostages they've decided
to join this protest and to De demand
the resignation of the prime
minister so Mr Netanyahu of course is
saying I won't go he says that an
election now would paralyze the country
and help Hamas is he the only member of
this fragile Coalition that's saying
that he doesn't need to go at this
stage yeah well of course the members of
the Coalition they want to stay in power
they're not interested in any elections
since according to all the polls if
there would be early elections uh they
would find themselves in the
opposition today you have 64 members out
of the 120 seats in the Israeli
Parliament that is support Netanyahu and
there hasn't been one poll that showed
that this Coalition would be able to
succeed in next elections so they all
clinging to each other hoping that the
election day will not
come it's seems like quite a strong
argument though doesn't it we're in the
middle of a war now is not the the time
for an elections what is the protesters
response to
that yeah well you know uh the
protesters they don't have much Faith or
trust in
Netanyahu uh they think that for him
it's just another trick uh to stay in
power and they will also tell you that
that Israel already had elections uh
quite recently Municipal elections
during the War uh when the situation was
even worse uh when it comes to the front
with Gaza so technically it is possible
to have elections it has been proven and
this is what the majority of the public
wants and I wanted to come to that
because clearly we have these loud these
noisy demonstrations in the streets
calling for Netanyahu to to to go but is
there wider public support uh for him to
go or they are they just a loud
minority well surprisingly enough the
Israeli public even those who identify
themselves with a Centrist or even white
right-wing positions they're not backing
Netanyahu uh they think that Netanyahu
fa
on the 7th of October they want to see a
different
leadership and the majority of the
public today in Israel wants early
elections they want H to change the
politicians they want to see a a
change so if that change happened what
would happen to Benjamin Netanyahu if he
were to uh to lose
power yeah well netan would find himself
in the
opposition uh because according to all
the polls Benny gun his rival would be
able to form a coalition with other
political parties uh which would put
netanyahu's party and the ultra Orthodox
parties in the uh
opposition and this would mean that
Israel would have um the uh the far
right in the in the
opposition uh so uh it doesn't mean that
we're going to have peace in the Middle
East and one has to remember that most
of the public does not support say a
two-state solution uh which is what the
International Community is expecting uh
to see uh after this war is over but
still they do not want to see
Netanyahu just just so zooming out from
this and a final word how much is
cooling diplomatic relations with the
United States uh fueling these
protests well I must say that the impact
is not very strong Israelis are used to
having these kinds of conflicts with the
Americans and so far there has been some
rhetoric on the behalf of the
administration there has been some
criticism uh We've also seen uh the vote
the exstension in the security Council
but after all the Americans are still
sending their Munitions uh to Israel
they're still backing Israel militarily
uh so the Israelis still feel that they
have the back of the Americans and this
is not really the thing that's pushing
people into the streets in fact even
most of the public is Support also an
operation in
Rafa thanks for that Sammy as ever Samy
sakul in Jerusalem thank you so
much